 # Solid Practitioners

## Meeting Date
* 2024-01-08


## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe
* 

## Participants (please add yourself)

  
### Announcements

## Agenda

Continuation of project introductions

* HUBL, Startin'Box, INRIA - Maxime
* Semantyk - Dan
* others ?

Topic Proposals for coming meetings?

* focus on one project's issues and group problem-solve
* pick an issue of concern to everyone (localization,etc.) and focus on it
* others ?

### Working Group Topics

### Other issues not related to a specific member project
*
 
