# Solid Practitioners

## Meetng Date
* 2024-03-04

## Facilitator 
* Jeff Zucker - dubzed@gmail.com

## Scribe
* Tim Standen

* # Participants

- Jeff Zucker
- Tim Standen
- Th
- mariha (Maria Kozi≈Ñska)
- talita
- michal/mrkvon


# New Member Introductions
### Theo:
- developing liquid.surf
- Want to make better tools to make developing solid apps easier
- Want to bridge gap between solid and traditional apps. Get an app that works both with and without solid
- Developing more Solid tools this year
- liquid.surf and pod.liquid.surf

### Talita:
- Software Developer
- Researching solid to decide whether to use it on future apps

# Announcements
- Watch the Solid World recording on Vimeo. See https://vimeo.com/917649395
- Look out for Inrupt Hackathons.
- Have a need for judges and mentors
- Details in agenda for upcoming Hackathons
- Next is on shapes and LDO
- Starts March 18th, Ends April 1st
- Accepting ideas for new Hackathons

Maria: Hackathons have a reputation of being competitive, and only attract people for short periods of time. How can we attract more long-term contributors?

Jeff: We can consider organizing a hackathon that addresses these topics. Make one that is more cooperative and focused.

Tim: Hackathons are also a good opportunity to introduce new people to concepts and groups. The short-term nature makes them more attractive to people who aren't sure if they want to commit. We can design hackathons to focus on those short-term, high energy problems.

# Searching and Indexing
Most of the people involved in searching and indexing are not here. Therefore we are unable to come up with a recommendation.

Tim: searching and indexing as easy as possible

A request for Specification group to have an interface on a server for searching and indexing (metadata).

client-client index is being researched by Maxim at INRIA, France. It is proposed as a work item for the specifications.

Two specs are being under prep:
- indexing on a server
- client-client indexing

mrkvon: https://linkeddatafragments.org/ index
define predicate-type-object and get the ...
compatible with [comunica](https://comunica.dev/)

# Other Ideas for Meetings

Tim: Would like to hear about the new tools that various solid teams are developing, and what experiences people have had using them

Theo: lost between tools and vision of Solid

Jeff: Some questions should be directed at solid data modules (tools). Some can be directed at community group (spec and direction). Community group is looking for feedback on what is unclear about the spec.

# Theo's Work and Questions

"Bring your own IDP" - let the browser remember your IDP
Has a blog post that goes over the topic.

https://www.liquid.surf/2024/2/7/Can-FedCM-improve-Solid-login-flow

# Additional Discussion

Hadrian: Solid Community Group and FedCM community group will have a joint meeting, but no date yet.

Jeff: Go yourself to the community group and ask questions about the spec.

Jeff: Question of how do things get signed is an important question. Is there going to be a standard way in Solid to sign something with a private key? Another topic for practitioners is signing, and identity in general.

Jeff introduced Hadrian as the organizer of the Inrupt Hackathons

Hadrian: Come forward with ideas of how to improve Solid

Jeff: Hackathons can help in 2 ways:
    1. Short term bump in application energy
    2. Introduce the project and attract new members
   
Michal: Hadrian do you have a website where we can follow future hackathons?

Hadrian: Not yet. Inrupt has a hackathon section of their website. (?) Any ideas are appreciated (?). A request to reach out to Hadrian directly. Jackson is announcing the event (?)

Tim: https://noeldemartin.com/projects

Jeff, we should invite Noel for his tools, Jackson for LDO, my own web components library. All are different ways to get involved with solid.

